# website-scraping-challenge
Full web-scraping and data-analysis project

## Table of Contents

- [Instructions](#instructions)
- [Contents of the Repository](#contents of the repository)
- [Questions and Answers](#questions)
- [Givens](#givens)

## Instructions
This new assignment consists of two technical products. You will submit the following deliverables:<br />  
    Deliverable 1: Scrape titles and preview text from Mars news articles. <br /> 
    Deliverable 2: Scrape and analyze Mars weather data, which exists in a table.<br />

You’re now ready to take on a full web-scraping and data analysis project. You’ve learned to identify HTML elements on a page, identify their id and class attributes, and use this knowledge to extract information via both automated browsing with Splinter and HTML parsing with Beautiful Soup. You’ve also learned to scrape various types of information. These include HTML tables and recurring elements, like multiple news articles on a webpage.<br />

As you work on this Challenge, remember that you’re strengthening the same core skills that you’ve been developing until now: collecting data, organizing and storing data, analyzing data, and then visually communicating your insights.<br />


## Contents of the Repository
There are 2 coding deliverables. The first is part_1_mars_news.ipynb which contains the titles and text from mars news articles. The second is part_2_mars_weather.ipynb which scrapes and analyzes Mars weather data.<br />
I have also included the csv of the table which I converted into a DataFrame and used to do the analysis

## Questions
- How many months exist on Mars?<br />
    12 Months exist on Mars
- How many Martian days' worth of data are there? <br />
    There are 1867 Martian days worth of data
- Which month, on average, has the lowest temperature? The highest?<br />
    On average, the third month has the coldest minimum temperature on Mars, and the eighth month is the warmest
- Which month, on average, has the lowest atmospheric pressure? The highest? <br />
    Atmospheric pressure is, on average, lowest in the sixth month and highest in the ninth.
- How many terrestrial days exist in a Martian year? <br />
    The distance from peak to peak is roughly 1425-750, or 675 days. A year on Mars appears to be about 675 days from the plot. Internet search confirms that a Mars year is equivalent to 687 earth days.


## Givens
Most of my process was very straight forward. I completed all of the working testing along the way.<br />
All code was generated by myself.<br />
    
Data for this dataset and instructions were generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
